Add blog post: "Flink Serialization Tuning Vol. 1: Choosing your Serializer — if you can (#324)
apache/flink-web: _posts/2020-04-09-flink-serialization-tuning-vol-1.md

---
layout: post
title: "Flink Serialization Tuning Vol. 1: Choosing your Serializer — if you can"
date: 2020-04-07T08:00:00.000Z
categories: news
authors:
- Nico Kruber:
  name: "Nico Kruber"
 

> excerpt: Serialization is a crucial element of your Flink job. This article is the first in a series of post that will highlight Flink’s serialization stack, and looks at the different ways Flink can serialize your data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Serialization is a crucial element of your Flink job. This article is the first in a series of posts that will highlight Flink’s serialization stack, and looks at the different ways Flink can serialize your data types.
```

`stream.keyBy(“ruleId”)` or 
`dataSet.join(another).where("name").equalTo("personName")`. It also allows optimizations in the serialization format as well as reducing unnecessary de/serializations (mainly in certain Batch operations as well as in the SQL/Table APIs).

# Choice of Serializer

Apache Flink's out-of-the-box serialization can be roughly divided into the following groups:

- **Flink-provided special serializers** for basic types (Java primitives and their boxed form), arrays, composite types (tuples, Scala case classes, Rows), and a few auxiliary types (Option, Either, Lists, Maps, …),

- **POJOs**; a public, standalone class with a public no-argument constructor and all non-static, non-transient fields in the class hierarchy either public or with a public getter- and a setter-method; see [POJO Rules](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/types_serialization.html#rules-for-pojo-types),

- **Generic types**; user-defined data types that are not recognized as a POJO and then serialized via [Kryo](https://github.com/EsotericSoftware/kryo).

> Alternatively, you can also register [custom serializers](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/custom_serializers.html) for user-defined data types. This includes writing your own serializers or integrating other serialization systems like [Google Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/) or [Apache Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org/) via [Kryo](https://github.com/EsotericSoftware/kryo). Overall, this gives quite a number of different options of serializing user-defined data types and we will elaborate 7 of them in the sections below.

Reviewer 2: Have you considered replacing 7 by "seven"?
https://www.grammarly.com/blog/when-to-spell-out-numbers/

Author: I usually apply that rule for lower numbers, let's say 1,2,3, but sure, why not

> 15:45:51,460 INFO  org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.TypeExtractor             - Class … cannot be used as a POJO type because not all fields are valid POJO fields, and must be processed as GenericType. Please read the Flink documentation on "Data Types & Serialization" for details of the effect on performance.

This means, that the PojoSerializer will not be used, but instead Flink will fall back to Kryo for serialization (see below). We will have a more detailed look into a few (more) situations that can lead to unexpected Kryo fallbacks in the second part of this blog post series.

## Tuple Data Types

> Flink comes with a predefined set of tuple types which all have a fixed length and contain a set of strongly-typed fields of potentially different types. There are implementations for `Tuple0`, `Tuple1<T0>`, …, `Tuple25<T0, T1, ..., T24>` and they may serve as easy-to-use wrappers that spare the creation of POJOs for each and every combination of objects you need to pass between computations. With the exception of `Tuple0`*, these are serialized and deserialized with the [TupleSerializer](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.10.0/flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/java/typeutils/runtime/TupleSerializer.java) and the according fields’ serializers. Since tuple classes are completely under the control of Flink, both actions can be performed without reflection by accessing the appropriate fields directly. This certainly is a (performance) advantage when working with tuples instead of POJOs. Tuples, however, are not as flexible and certainly less descriptive in code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flink comes with a predefined set of tuple types which all have a fixed length and contain a set of strongly-typed fields of potentially different types. There are implementations for `Tuple0`, `Tuple1<T0>`, …, `Tuple25<T0, T1, ..., T24>` and they may serve as easy-to-use wrappers that spare the creation of POJOs for each and every combination of objects you need to pass between computations. With the exception of `Tuple0`, these are serialized and deserialized with the [TupleSerializer](https://github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.10.0/flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/java/typeutils/runtime/TupleSerializer.java) and the according fields’ serializers. Since tuple classes are completely under the control of Flink, both actions can be performed without reflection by accessing the appropriate fields directly. This certainly is a (performance) advantage when working with tuples instead of POJOs. Tuples, however, are not as flexible and certainly less descriptive in code.
```

Reviewer 2: > With the exception of `Tuple0`*

Removed the *

Author: Yes, you're right...that's actually not needed with the info box so close. I also removed it from there.

### Avro Specific

Avro specific records will be automatically detected by checking that the given type’s type hierarchy contains the `SpecificRecordBase` class. You can either specify your concrete Avro type, or—if you want to be more generic and allow different types in your operator—use the `SpecificRecordBase` type (or a subtype) in your user functions, in `ResultTypeQueryable#getProducedType()`, or in `SingleOutputStreamOperator#returns()`. Since specific records use generated Java code, they are strongly typed and allow direct access to the fields via known getters and setters.

<div class="alert alert-warning" markdown="1">
<span class="label label-warning" style="display: inline-block"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-warning-sign" aria-hidden="true"></span> Warning</span> If you specify the Flink type as `SpecificRecord` and not `SpecificRecordBase`, Flink will not see this as an Avro type. Instead, it will use Kryo to de/serialize any objects which may be considerably slower. 
</div>

### Avro Generic

> Avro’s `GenericRecord` types can, unfortunately, not be used automatically since they require the user to [specify a schema](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.8.2/gettingstartedjava.html#Serializing+and+deserializing+without+code+generation) (either manually or by retrieving it from some schema registry). With that schema, you can provide the right type information by either of the following options just like for the Row Types above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avro’s `GenericRecord` types cannot, unfortunately, be used automatically since they require the user to [specify a schema](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.8.2/gettingstartedjava.html#Serializing+and+deserializing+without+code+generation) (either manually or by retrieving it from some schema registry). With that schema, you can provide the right type information by either of the following options just like for the Row Types above:
```

> Exception in thread "main" java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: Generic types have been disabled in the ExecutionConfig and type … is treated as a generic type.

If you cannot immediately see from the type where it is being used, this log message also gives you a stacktrace that can be used to set breakpoints and find out more details in your IDE.

## Apache Thrift (via Kryo)

In addition to the variants above, Flink also allows you to [register other type serialization frameworks](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/custom_serializers.html#register-a-custom-serializer-for-your-flink-program) with Kryo. After adding the appropriate dependencies from the [documentation](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.10/dev/custom_serializers.html#register-a-custom-serializer-for-your-flink-program) (`com.twitter:chill-thrift` and `org.apache.thrift:libthrift`), you can use [Apache Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org/) like the following:

```java
env.getConfig().addDefaultKryoSerializer(MyCustomType.class, TBaseSerializer.class);
```

> This only works if (generic types are not disabled and) `MyCustomType` is a Thrift-generated data type or otherwise, it will fail at runtime with an exception like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This only works if generic types are not disabled and `MyCustomType` is a Thrift-generated data type or otherwise, it will fail at runtime with an exception like this:
```

Author: In that case, I'd also have to change the failure description because that only relates to non-Thrift types. I think, it works better like this anyway:
```suggestion
This only works if generic types are not disabled and `MyCustomType` is a Thrift-generated data type. If the data type is not generated by Thrift, Flink will fail at runtime with an exception like this:
```
